## Install

The main task of the installer is:

- To verify that *docker, docker compose,* and *curl* are installed on the system, as they are requirements of the installer.
- To ask the user a series of questions about the project. Using the values provided by the user, the installer then generates several configuration files, including docker configurations, environment variables in the *.env* file, etc.

After asking the user questions, the installer proceeds to:

1. create a *.env* file with environment variables used by the API
2. create configuration files used by *docker* and *docker-compose*
3. create a *pyproject.toml* file
   Once the files are created, it checks if Rye is installed. If it is not installed, it downloads and installs it.

Finally, it uses Rye to:

1. If necessary, download and install the version of Python that the user has specified to use
2. Create a virtual environment / *virtualenv*
3. Install all project dependencies inside the virtual environment
4. Generate *requirements.lock* and *requirements-dev.lock* files. These files are later used within the docker container to install the dependencies specified in these files inside the container.

After the installer finishes, it is recommended to open a new window (or run: *source $HOME/.rye/env*) in order to then type '*python*' to access the fully configured environment, ready to be used.

### Environment Variables

Below is a brief explanation of how the values obtained from the user by the installer script are used.

##### PROJECT_NAME

Name of the project. Its better if you provide it in **lowercase**. This value is used by mutliple files:

 - *.env*: Used as the *PROJECT_NAME* value
 - *docker-compose.yml*: This file is generated by the installer and it sets the *PROJECT_NAME* as the *container_name* value.

##### PROJECT_DESCRIPTION

Description of the project. Used in *pyproject.toml* file.

##### PROJECT_AUTHOR_NAME

Name of the author. Used in *pyproject.toml* file.

##### PROJECT_AUTHOR_EMAIL

Author email. Used in *pyproject.toml* file.

##### API_HOST

This is the hostname where the API will be listen on. You can provide values like:

- *0.0.0.0*, so it'll listen on all ip addresses. In most cases, this is the value you want to set.

*API_HOST* is used in multiple files, like: *.env*, *docker-compose.yml*

##### API_PORT

This is the port where the API will be listen on. You should provide a port number. There is no default, so be sure to provide a port number.

##### PYTHON_VERSION

The Python version you want to use on this project. If needed, It'll be installed using Rye, no worries if the version you choose its not present in your system, but be sure to provide only the version number, e.g: *3.12* 